# AVB Power Tool

> [!tip]
> Chinese version: [Here](./这是什么.md)
>
> 中文版：[这里](./这是什么.md)

## Brief

As is known to all, AOSP has a tool to create Android Verified Boot(AVB) footer, avbtool.py. However, this script is designed to work with build workflow, which is unfriendly to ROMers with requirements of AVB.

This tool is designed to make using avbtool.py easier by providing automatic command generation and config management, its functions:

- Read AVB config from image files in current work directory.
- Sign images in work directory with a config file generated by AVB Power Tool.
- Manage configs in a much easier way with integrated config manager and a text editor, no need to adjust command lines manually.

**IMPORTANT**: You CANNOT generate images with AVB footer without public key files. SHA1 digest of key file from images in your working dir cannot use as a public key file.

## Quick Start

Install Python 3.9+ and OpenSSL, then execute:

For interactive mode:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/WASDDestroy/AVBPowerTool.git
cd AVBPowerTool
python3 main.py # Consider use py or python if you are on Windows
```

For CLI mode, append your argument sequences after main.py, see the help text below for more information:
```text
usage: AVBPowerTool [-h] {sign,read,save,set_active,import,export,about} ...

Image signing and configuration tool

positional arguments:
  {sign,read,save,set_active,import,export,about}
                        Available commands
    sign                Sign given images
    read                Read vbmeta info of given images
    save                Save current config to persistent storage
    set_active          Set a config as active
    import              Import config from zip archive
    export              Export config to zip archive
    about               Show about message

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
```

Here's an CLI mode example that signs LKM mode images:

```shell
# Do something...
mv kernelsu_patched.img init_boot.img # Shell command for preprocessing
python3 main.py import --file my_config.zip # Import config first
python3 main.py set_active --name my_config # Then activate it, program will do nothing when no config is activated.
python3 main.py sign --images init_boot vbmeta # Sign init_boot and vbmeta, LKM mode with AOSP test AVB key
# Lenovo Legion Y700 Gen2 to Gen4, Xiaoxin Pad Pro GT(Lenovo YOGA Tab), YOGA Tab 2025
# Do something else...
```

## WIPs of AVBPowerTool 1.0

*High Priority*

- [ ] Set up FEC binaries automatically with boxed fec for armv8 and x86-64 Linux when they are unavailable.
- [x] Extract unnecessary logics from main.py, such as CLI mode execution
- [ ] More robust exception handler for CLI mode

*Normal Priority*

- [x] main.py as entry point under project's root directory
- [x] Select one or multiple images to read config or sign
- [x] Interface for importing, exporting and manage configs
- [x] CLI mode support
- [x] Allow using arrow keys to navigate options instead of entering choice
- [x] Check whether current images have satisfied requirements of making vbmeta images
- [ ] ~~Add localization support~~
- [x] Transplant FEC to Windows ~~We use Python implements to achieve this goal~~
- [ ] Code quality improvements ~~Never ends, this project is actually my exercise of OOP programming, leading to a lot of unwise choices and tons of refactor have to be made.~~
- [ ] Save config name and other config metadata to config_info.cfg in config folder for management(?)

*Low Priority (Maybe goals for AVBPowerTool 2.0)*

- [ ] An integrated interactive editor to edit image info JSON easier
- [ ] Compare differences between configs, update config *smartly* to adapt to new versions of ROMs without manual analysis, which would be friendlier to green hands
- [ ] Tutorial document for interactive mode, current navigation map config is not good enough in clearness, esp. in config management
- [x] Use global program config to configure program behavior, such as log level, log destination, should clear screen, etc.